>> Marcy Sutton Todd: So for
this exercise we are going to announce
when we add things to the cart.
So when you click this button,
Add to Cart,
we're going to show a little
badge up here in the cart.
I don't want to move the focus up
there because the person might be,
maybe they want to add two things to the
cart, maybe they wanna do something else.
I guess that's a design consideration of
should we move focus to the cart or not?
In this case, I'm gonna say we're not.
And instead, we are going to announce
that there is a live region.
Or using a live region we are going to
announce that there's a certain number of
products.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: So for
this one, let's code it together.
Sound good?
And then we'll take a break.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Okay, so for
this, we are in the exercise 4.
We have similar to the last exercise,
the one we're viewing is the one that
doesn't have this supported in it yet.
So if I click this button,
I don't see anything.
I think my button might
not even be a real button.
But what I want to have happen is
there'll be a little badge that shows up.
So we need some state that is going to
show that number and then we're gonna
write an ARIA live region that will just
announce when that text is appended.
And we can always look at
the more completed example.
So I'm gonna come over here to our code.
That stuff is all, I think for
the most part in the product details.
So our button, I was right,
it is not a real button.
That was something, so
this is interesting.
I don't think axe complained
about this button or
maybe the version of that
page had real buttons in it.
But these should be buttons, not divs.
I don't think axe will complain at you
if you have a click event on a div,
because there are valid use cases for
click events on divs, but
it's also a big accessibility issue.
So now this is a real button.
It has a click event on it with
a callback function called onAddToCart.
So this product detail page, it knows
which product we're looking at, so
it's gonna pass its product kind of data
object back up to the parent to say,
hey this is the one that we're
gonna pass up to the shopping cart.
Cuz the shopping cart is outside
of the scope of this, so
we have to do a little bit of passing
around of state to show that and
there's definitely more than
one way you could do this for
this sort of prototyped product page
that's how we're gonna to handle it.
So on Add to Cart, let's go to
trace the trail of where that is.
So, if I go up to the top of the page,
product details gets
that callback function.
So product details is added
here in the product page.
So that's where this onAddToCart callback
function, then on the parent side,
I can handle what's in the shopping cart.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: So we have state
tracking the shopping cart items.
We have that callback function that will
say, all right, go add this to our cart.
And I don't think it's actually
doing anything right now.
So what I'm gonna do is make another
function, we'll called onAddToCart.
And I'm gonna update
the state in that function.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Let's
call it onAddToCart.
It's gonna take in a product,
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: That
is going to want a type.
Man.
>> Speaker 2: You're missing the arrow
function.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Yeah, thank you.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Okay, so in here
we're gonna say updateShoppingCartItems.
I am going to combine what was
potentially in the shopping cart already.
Like if I was on another product page or
something, I have to, yeah,
this is definitely not a data
architecture course [LAUGH], so
this is what we're doing right now, okay?
I'm gonna say, we'll say Items,
let's say shoppingCartItems and
the new product.
We're going to combine those
using the spread operator and
then we will update our shopping cart
state with that combined array of items.
So there's an array of objects here.
So on Add to Cart now has updated
those items to do that stuff.
So the shoppingCartItems are actually
already being passed in to our
product header, we just weren't
really doing anything to update it.
So I'm gonna save that.
Let's go over to the product header and
our shopping cart icon,
I'm going to maybe collapse
our banner component.
So here's our shopping cart.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: I've
got shoppingCartItems, so
if I have shoppingCartItems and
just to be extra careful,
I'm gonna say if
the length is more than 0,
then I could output a little badge icon.
So, I think I already have the CSS for
that, and
that will be our little circle
with the number up there.
So just to make sure that I
have the CSS for that in here,
we have a CSS class,
I'm just gonna go and check.
I always confuse these two.
Okay, custom css.
Okay, so we have a badge here,
it's got a red background color,
it's like a little circle
with some text in it.
So that's in there.
I did bail out of Tailwind for
this example because it was not
working for me for some reason.
So we're getting the job
done with CSS classes.
So we've got a little badge that will
output if there's more than zero items.
It's like that message notification
that won't ever go away otherwise, so
we only want to show it if
there's actually something in it.
So then we need to say,
shoppingCartItems.length that
will show us the number.
And for our live region, we want to
say like, hey, there's items in there.
So we could put our live region
right up here in the header.
If you had live regions throughout your
product or throughout your web app,
you might wanna centralize them somehow.
But for this kinda first iteration,
I'm just gonna create it right here
in the element, or in the header.
So I'm gonna make this a div.
I'm gonna say div role status,
that will create our live region.
I am going to make it visually hidden
with the Tailwind sr-only class.
And let's, we could just say
ShoppingCartItems.length,
like there are certain number
of items in your cart.
So, I could say, Let's see,
I actually wanna abstract
this into a state variable.
So I'm gonna say.
Let's see, regionAnnouncement,
or cartAnnouncement,
I think that's what I called it,
cartAnnouncementMessage.
So I'm going to go define that
up here using React state.
I could say cartAnnouncementMessage,
setCartAnnouncementMessage, and
I'll say = useState.
That will be a string, and
I'll start it off as an empty string.
So the element will be there, but
it won't have any content in it, so
nothing will be read aloud.
And then when we get
shoppingCartItems I can do things,
like manipulate what that text looks like.
I can say, does it have item or
items in it?
I could have done that in line in the JSX,
it just felt like a little too much
logic to put down there in my markup.
So I'm gonna do, I guess,
pick your poison, right?
I'm gonna do useEffect instead.
So when we get that code
CartAnnouncementMessage or sorry,
the shoppingCartItems,
I'm going to create a side effect of
generating a live region
announcement from it.
So, in my dependency array,
I'm gonna say shoppingCartItems,
so this way I can safely manipulate.
I can take that data,
manipulate it into the string I want and
I can call setCartAnnouncementMessage.
It will then create this other
state variable that I need to use.
So let's say, so item or items,
gosh naming things is always the hardest,
right?
So,
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: So
if shoppingCartItems.length,
if it equals 1, I could say,
you have one item in your cart,
[LAUGH] otherwise, it'll be items.
If it's zero items,
we aren't gonna see it.
But if it's two or more, we'll see items.
So then,
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Get my ternary
operator here.
So I could say,
setCartAnnouncementMessage,
I'm going to make a template literal and
say,
There are shoppingCartItems.length,
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: And
then are item or items in your cart.
So that should be, there
are the number of items in your cart.
I could wrap this in logic if I really
wanted to be extra safe by saying,
if shoppingCartItems,
probably don't need to do that.
But if the length is greater than 0,
then run this code.
I don't think it'll matter.
But if you wanna be extra type safe or
something, that should give us a string.
Let's go see what what happened.
So, we will add to the cart,
shopping cart items is not alterable.
I saw this before.
So I think my type script,
any, there it is.
So this actually should be product, that's
a type that this file doesn't know about.
So I'm gonna go import the type.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Product from,
where are those types?
Types,
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Okay,
seems to be cool with that.
Okay, so now, it should be an inerrable.
I thought it would be before,
but it was mad, big mad.
Still not, okay.
So, for time purposes, yes.
>> Speaker 2: I was gonna say I think I
know the problem like further upstream and
the parent component,
I think the state was initialized as null.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Okay.
Yes, it was and it's an any here too.
So product,
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Yeah,
it's an array of products and
I can initialize it as an empty array.
Thank you.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Save
us a little bit of time.
Now, it is mad.
If shoppingCartItems,
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: And,
it's interesting that it complained
in the browser but not in line.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Okay,
let's see if that worked.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: No, okay, fun,
it's only mad when I click that button.
So I'm gonna open the full
page in another tab.
>> Speaker 2: That one worked.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Okay,
so we have the badge there.
I'm not really sure what's going on,
but we'll figure it out.
Okay, so we have a badge.
Woohoo, it worked.
But what did that live region do?
That's the bigger question because
that's what we're really focused on,
it kind of motivated
the thought process of,
I click here,
something else is happening on the screen.
So, we're going to fire up VoiceOver and
see if it worked.
So, function command F5.
>> Speaker 3: Announcements, banner,
announcements, list two items, link,
clear gifts for everyone on your list,
shop our gift guide.
Next slide.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: We're gonna
fix that carousel next.
>> Speaker 3: Button, banner.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Next exercise.
>> Speaker 3: You
are currently on a button.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Actually-
>> Speaker 3: To click this button,
press add to cart, button, main,
two items in your shopping card.
You are currently on a button to click
this button, press control, option,
space, three items in your shopping cart.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: So see how it waited
until everything else was done reading?
Might be fine, I mean, that's really, you
start to get into user research territory.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: I think it's
probably fine to just leave it that way.
But if you're working on
a design system or something,
some of these patterns would really
benefit from testing with users.
And these are compound components,
so some of these flows and patterns,
we can make a best guess,
but I just wanna say like,
I'm bringing my own developer
bias to this solution.
So ask people, even if you can just,
I don't know, pay somebody to consult for
an hour to explain the thing they
might even give you some ideas.
But, so yeah, it worked though.
We've got three items in our shopping cart
and I'm still in my navigating, going
through the page my focus is still on the
button so that's how live regions work.
They're really awesome.
Let's see what it looks like- [INAUDIBLE]
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: If we make it
assertive since we're talking
about whether to interrupt or not,
let's try that.
So in this solution we
have rule of status.
If I say rule of alert
that will interrupt.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: I'm very curious
what I messed up on that other page.
So let's fire VoiceOver back up.
>> Speaker 3: Announcements,
banner, announcements.
List two items, link, clear gifts for
everyone on your list, shop,
add to cart, button, main,
four items in your shopping cart.
You are currently on a button,
to click this button.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: So,
assertive might be better, I'm not sure.
Did you hear the little [SOUND]?
It makes a little interrupt noise.
So I guess to get back to that question
on whether you should play a noise,
there already is a noise [LAUGH] for
the assertive alerts.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Yeah,
sort of might be okay.
I guess you have to think about
what other announcements could.
Possibly be running, it could be okay,
it could be annoying.
I'm not really sure.
>> Speaker 3: Six items
in your shopping cart.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: But I think for
this type of thing, I guess assertive
when I think through the kind
of user impact of it.
You wanna make sure that
the button worked, and if,
I think assertive actually might, now
that I'm just kind of talking out loud,
I think that might be the right choice.
Because the consequence is that if you
don't immediately know that it worked,
you might keep clicking.
And then as a blind screen reader user,
then how do you go remove
it from your card?
Then that's a whole other can of worms,
then you have to go to another page,
you have to do all the stuff, so I think
assertive is my that's my final answer.
Was there a question?
>> Speaker 2: Does it make
sense to set roll alert for
any kind of error notifications
that could pop up on the site?
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Potentially,
so this is an area we wanna,
definitely verify that.
Anytime we're talking about live regions,
I'm just like,
hold the phone [LAUGH] Because
we wanna be, careful with them.
As I mentioned, they can be super
annoying, like screen reader users,
and many people will say
that they're annoying.
So I think for error validation,
like form validation I do
think it's appropriate.
You can use ARIA invalid for actual form
validation and send focused to the errors,
like say in a form context, there's
some form fields that you missed, or
aren't filled in correctly or something.
And with client-side validation,
when you hit submit,
you're doing the action
of clicking a button.
So it's appropriate to move focus to
the first error message, I think.
So, live region may or
may not be that useful in that context.
Where they are useful is where
you are not going to move focus.
If you did have some sort of an alert
error banner at the top, I guess I just
said the word alert, that does kind of
sound like an RA live -region situation.
I think where we wanna get careful Is so
that it's not repeatedly announcing
[LAUGH] the ten minutes ago,
five minutes ago, error, error, error,
sounds annoying because it would be.
So we wanna be careful that
we're not just making annoying
announcements that we don't
realize are pummeling our users.
Coz if you don't have the screen reader
running, you probably have no idea.
So if it's re-rendering, like,
automatically or something,
that's what we wanna be careful about.
I saw one technique for
live regions that makes me think of,
I think this was pre-React.
But their solution to client-side
routing and screen reader announcements,
was to wrap the main content in a live
region, so anytime that updated,
it would just announce it.
Seemed kind of innovative at the time,
but now that I'm thinking about,
like, I just worked on a page
that had like a, some sort of a,
use effect, run amok, and
it was just like re-rendering.
And the only way I knew was that
the console was just like adding, adding,
adding, adding the terminal was spinning.
I think that page would be re-rendering,
so
if it had a live region on it would
just be constantly announcing.
So I mean, that's a like deeper bug
than just the live region, but it might
kind of illustrate, when it's re rendering
the screen reader might pick it up.
I don't know you have to test it,
coz there are some other settings
that we didn't actually talk about.
If I go back to live regions there are,
do I have it in here?
Yes ARIA atomic and ARIA irrelevant,
theoretically will change whether
it will announce additions or
removals like what kind of,
how granular is the live region.
It hasn't been super
reliable cross-platform but
hopefully with a live region if it
literally is announcing the same or
re-rendering the same thing over and
over again.
It shouldn't just announce it over and
over but,
again it's like this is an area that
we do wanna test in a screen reader.
So hopefully,
you see some motivation to add that in
your workflow if you have a use case for
live regions.
I do wanna see if I can
fix our TypeScript error.
So that one was in product header,
what I'm gonna do is
>> Speaker 2: Someone said,
I think it might have to do with
the default value, maybe null.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Yes we changed that,
I thought.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, sorry.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: So
shoppingCartItems, we have an array,
array of products.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: We
have shoppingCart, wait,
maybe I didn't update that page.
I think I might have fixed the wrong one.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: Maybe that was it,
I swear I edited that in the right place.
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: I remember doing it,
that's the problem of having
multiple versions of the same thing.
Well, it worked, but my styling is off.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: I'm gonna
call that a win [LAUGH].
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Marcy Sutton Todd: So yes,
demo inside of another React,
the rest of the React site,
so, some styling.
But at least the bones are there,
the functionality works.
And the live region should announce there,
so one thing I didn't show you is
that you can inspect just like any
other element with a live region.
So I guess it would be up here in
the header just to make sure it rendered,
like sometimes we're using react where you
only output an element if
a certain condition is true.
Sometimes you'll be like, well,
why didn't that element render?
It could be something with your
state variables or something, so
you can always go to the dev tools and
see like, it's not announcing.
Is that for some other reason or
is it because my live region didn't
actually end up in the rendered document?
So it's there, if it doesn't announce,
even though you see it in there,
it might be for some other reason.
Like maybe display none, or I'm not sure,
maybe the maybe the messages aren't making
it to the right element or something.